Israel's Central Bank says the war on
Gaza has become a burden on the economy
the estimated cost May reach $58 billion
by the year 2025 the Central Bank
Governor has urged the Israeli
government to curb its public spending
and cut interest rates from
4.75% to
4.5% Israel has spent $6.6 billion
dollar in various aspects of its War
including funding for the more than a
100,000 displaced people some 249
million I dollar have been put aside for
mental and physical healthare and the
total cost of rebuilding in some areas
could reach $174 million including towns
near the Lebanese border that sustain
damage in cross B fighting while Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
told his ministers to share in the
burden of sweeping budget cuts his
cabinet is meeting for a second day to
discuss amendments to this year's budget
Netanyahu wants to increase military
spending to help finance the war on Gaza
the conflict could cost Israel $24
billion this year let's bring in
Stephanie DEA who live for us in
occupied East Jerusalem Stephanie so an
Israeli cabinet meeting to approve the
military budget and there could be some
fireworks there are already fireworks F
we understand one of the ministers
walked out in a screaming match
yesterday according to One Source
calling where to make these Cuts is a
political Hot Potato uh just to give you
you used a lot of numbers there one
number that shocked me is that how much
does this War cost Israel a day
$269 million a day so that gives you
just an indication of also in those
words that what a burden this war is
also on the Israeli uh economy as you
mentioned there it's not just funding
the war the Weaponry it is the reservist
it's feeding them housing them weaponry
and then it's the over 100 100,000
evacuees not just from the Gaza border
but also from the Lebanese Border in the
North of Israel they have to be housed
in hotels they also are being paid by
this government uh thousands of shakles
a month it is a very difficult
discussion you mentioned there prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed
the cabinet Sunday morning as these
talks started he said he was willing to
stay all night uh and that this was a
burden that needed to be shared at the
moment we understand some of the figures
to give you uh they think they need
about $18.3 million increase education
Ministry Cuts 23 $9 million perhaps the
health ministry will probably get over
$100 million of cuts as well some
criticism saying that things like social
welfare a lot of things being affected
so it just goes to show the impact the
widespread impact that this war is
having thank you Stephanie for that
Stephanie Deca live there in occupied
East Jerusalem